Old Fashion Spicy Gingerbread Cookies

6 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for work surface
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons finely chooped chrystalized ginger
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cloves
1 teaspoon finely ground pepper
1 1/2 teaspoons coarse salt
1 cup (2 sticks or 1/2 pound) unsalted butter (at room temperature)
1 cup packed dark-brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup unsulfured molasses


Whisk together flour, baking soda, baking powder, spices and salt in a large bowl and set aside. 
Beat butter and brown sugar together in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy. 
Mix in eggs and molasses. 

Add flour mixture, mixing on low until just combined.
Divide dough into thirds and wrap each in plastic. 
Refrigerate until cold and firm, about one hour or up to two days.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Drink some wine. 
Roll out dough on a lightly floured work surface to a 1/4-inch thick. 
Cut into shapes of your choice, such as snowflakes* or gingerbread men. 
Spread two inches apart on baking sheets lined with parchment paper, 
and refrigerate until the cookies firm up again, about 15 minutes.

Bake cookies until crisp but not dark, 12 to 14 minutes. 
Let cool on sheets on wire racks.

When cool, you can decorate the cookies with icing and sprinkles.
When you pipe designs, sprinkle the icing with sanding sugar and
let it sit for five minutes before tapping off the excess sugar. 
Then let the icing set completely at room temperature, which will 
take an hour or so, depending on how thick it is.

Store cookies between layers of parchment or waxed paper in an airtight container
for up to a week.

Frosting:
2 large egg whites, or more to thin icing
4 cups sifted confectioners' sugar, or more to thicken icing
Juice of 1 lemon
3-4 drops of glycerin

Beat the whites until stiff but not dry. 
Add sugar, lemon juice and glycerin (if using); beat for 1 minute more. 
If icing is too thick, add more egg whites; if it is too thin, add more sugar. 
The icing may be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 
3 days.
